Welcome back in this lesson we're going to build a pop up overlay.
So they also sometimes called modals add in a little bit more text here.
And this text is just a dummy text placeholder text so that I've got more content within my age to smell
so good going in here refreshing it so you can use any page you want.
So let's set this up and what we're going to do is we're going to use javascript to create the updates
and the styling so we're going to stow it as visible and hidden or visible and depending on what the
button gets clicked.
So basically this is a pop up box that's going to show up on top of our content.
So let's let's set this up and this can actually sit anywhere within our page.
A lot of times you're going to find modals sit at the bottom and let's for this time put it at the bottom.
So we need to give it an ID.
So again this is just our way of identifying it within each Tamal.
And usually the simplest is just having default ID.
So we're not going to go into too much detail but basically that's it.
So that's all we're going to do for that.
And next let's set up a div and then inside of that div Let's get in some default content here.
Nothing important.
And so on so we can.
And then I'll add in even more content within there as well.
So let me just populate some content in there so we're going to add the javascript stuff so that we
actually have some content within the overlay.
So now when I go back in that page and if I refresh it.
I've got the overlay there sitting at the bottom.
So we also need to apply some styling to our overlay so that it actually is floating on top of our HVM.
And I used to like to do this part early because then I'm going to hide it using the Javascript.
So this is the styling part.
And a lot of times with styling you need to be able to see it actually.
So we need to set position and this is all going to be CSSA are saying position of absolute.
So we can actually position that and let's do left at zero.
And we're going to do right at zero as well.
And let's add in some margin so we've got margin and left because I want this to float center.
So we're senting the left margin to our middle and margin right.
Auto.
So that will give us the ability to float at center.
We need to give it some with.
So let's set it at 400 pics and height.
So this one maybe 200 picks.
And we also need to give it a background color so that we can distinguish it from the rest of the content.
So a background color and I ask you to do slightly off of white.
So do dee dee dee and lets out a border as well.
Suborder 1 pick solid black border and of course you can style this however you want.
So let's let's save that and go back out here and refresh it and we see it as such showing up there
at the bottom.
And also let's add in Zed index.
So that will give it the ability to actually float on top so that index 1000 is usually a good number
to use.
So glad to see that and go back a bit.
And also let's hide in the top so that one is also important.
So this is how far off the top it is let's just set it 50 picks off the top go out here and refresh
it and just make sure that it's showing up roughly where you want it to show up.
So now next part of this is in order to initiate this and we're going to use this just via javascript.
And let's go back down here and what we need is we need a way to actually call this so we can put this
button anywhere and I'm going to do input.
So we're going to basically copy this button and I'm not going to use the On Click event.
So this is just something to do something a little bit different and it's going to delete that.
And we need to give it an idea so we can grab to it.
And I'm calling it all day and I'm going to call it a pop up window.
So there we go.
So now we've got our button.
Let's go back out and refresh the code.
And of course or overlay is on top so we do need to have one more thing within the styling and that's
the visibility property and this is important because we're going to be actually this is the one that
we're going to be adjusting via javascript so we know that hidden the way that hidden works and hidden
is different than display none because it doesn't reserve any space within that page to him.
So now that we've set this up we're all ready to make our connection and press the button.
And have our pop up windows show up.
So what I want and actually maybe even get rid of some of these buttons here so that it doesn't confuse
us.
So let's refresh.
So now we just have that one button for a pop up window.
So what I want you to do now.
Is add the click event so pause the video.
Open up your editor and create that button and add a click event to that button.
So we know that that button has been clicked and then create a function for that button so we can just
create an anonymous function.
We don't have to link it to an actual function.
So it's just an on click.
And then it's going to fire off and show up overly.
So go ahead and try that out and show you the solution.
Coming up so the challenge was that we need to attach an event listener to this button.
And we typically what we've been doing is we've been doing it within the attributes here on click and
so on.
So this is actually going to work the same way but we're just doing it just via the scripting a lot
so we're not going to have anything within the H to model that's going to indicate that there's actually
a click event on it.
So we need to make our selection of the element.
So I believe we had called it only.
So always double check.
So it is called Olay.
So I'm able to grab the element that way.
And what I wanted to do is I want to apply the On Click event and I also want it to fire off and I've
got an anonymous function so I don't have any information that I'm doing with it.
We're just simply firing off this function.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to grab that element and I going to set up a default
global container here that's going to that we can use within this to basically create our element or
actually we don't need to make a global.
So maybe get rid of that because this is within a function.
So let's set it up within here.
So Al and here is where we're going to grab that element.
So document and get element by id and this time let's grab that overlay.
So the grabbing one and we're placing it with in the variable L.
So now we're all ready to adjust our visibility.
So that was style.
So all style and it's visibility and then we need to equal the visibility to either hidden or visible.
So what I also want to do is I want to make this button toggle so we know that if we set the visibility
to
visible.
So let's let's start setting the visibility visible.
Let's go back and refresh it.
And now when I click it I actually have no way to get rid of it.
And now this reminds me I should actually move this button off of here.
So that's another thing that we need to take care of because we can actually see our button.
So maybe let's place that button right at the top of our aged you know.
So either way we still have no added functionality so even if it's at the top we can keep clicking it.
And we don't see anything happening.
We're not actually toggling the visibility.
So this is where another challenge comes in for this lesson is to make this toggle so toggle between
hidden and visible every time you press the button.
So one will make it visible and pressing it again will hide it and then continuously be able to do that.
So what I want you to do pause the video and think of how we can set that up.
We can do it within a turn every statement or we can do it within a condition.
So it's up to you and try to update the code so that you can pop the button and this will disappear.
I hit the button again it will pop up and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So my preferred way of doing this is actually the ternary operator.
So we know what the turn every operator we can evaluate a condition and depending on the valuation if
that's true then this gets fired off.
And if it's false then this one gets fired off and that's exactly what we need for there because we
don't actually need to have any additional variables or nothing else.
We can simply toggle between the two depending on what the condition of the statement is.
And now we just need to enter in a condition.
So we're going to check to see if visibility is equal to visible and if it is that means it's true.
So we're changing it to hidden.
And if it isn't that means it's false and it equals hidden and we're changing it back to visible.
So it's a quick way to create a toggle option within your javascript.
So let's go back refresh.
And now we can show what we can hide it show it hide it and so on.
So this is the best way to create those pop up effects.
And of course we can even do this and run the code in a number of ways within Javascript.
So do try it out for yourself and try creating one of these pop up modals for your web page.